<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.3.7" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>LyX Document</title>
<style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
div.standard {
text-align: left;

}
div.plain_layout {
text-align: left;

}
h3.subsection_ {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: medium;
margin-top: 0.9ex;
margin-bottom: 0.5ex;
text-align: left;

}
ul.itemize {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;

}
h2.section {
font-weight: normal;
font-style: normal;
font-variant: small-caps;
font-size: medium;
margin-top: 1.3ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
text-align: center;

}
div.Shadowbox { border: solid gray medium; border-bottom: solid black 1ex; border-right: solid black 1ex; padding: 0.5ex; }


</style>
</head>
<body dir="auto">


<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-1'><div class='Shadowbox'><div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-10'>Spatio-temporal statistics (MATH4341)&nbsp;&nbsp;Michaelmas term, 2023<div style='height:3ex'></div></div>

<div class="plain_layout" style='text-align: center;' id='magicparlabel-11'> Handout 1: Regional statistical concepts <div style='height:3ex'></div></div>

<div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-28'>Lecturer &amp; author: Georgios P. Karagiannis <a href="georgios.karagiannis@durham.ac.uk">georgios.karagiannis@durham.ac.uk</a></div>

<div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-29'><hr />

<div style='height:3ex'></div></div>
<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-30'>Aim</h3>
<div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-31'>To introduce regional statistical concepts: random field, variogram, </div>

<div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-32'><hr />

</div>
<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-33'>Reading&nbsp;list&nbsp;&amp;&nbsp;references:</h3>

<ul class="itemize" id='magicparlabel-34'><li class="itemize_item">Wackernagel, H. (2003). Multivariate geostatistics: an introduction with applications. Springer Science &amp; Business Media.

<ul class="itemize" id='magicparlabel-35'><li class="itemize_item">Ch. 1</li>
</ul>
</li></ul>
<div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-36'>Further reading</div>

<ul class="itemize" id='magicparlabel-37'><li class="itemize_item">van Lieshout, M. N. M. (2019). Theory of spatial statistics: a concise introduction. CRC Press.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Banerjee, S., Carlin, B. P., &amp; Gelfand, A. E. (2014). Hierarchical modeling and analysis for spatial data. CRC press.</li>
</ul>
</div></div>
<h2 class="section" id='magicparlabel-39'><span class="section_label">1</span> Type of problems addressed</h2>
<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-40'>.</div>


<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-41'><br />

</div>
</body>
</html>
