<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.3.7" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>LyX Document</title>
<style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
del.strikeout {
  text-decoration: line-through;
}
div.standard {
	margin-bottom: 2ex;
}
h2.section_ {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: x-large;
margin-top: 1.3ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
text-align: left;

}
div.plain_layout {
text-align: left;

}
ul.itemize {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;

}
div.Frameless { margin: 1em; }


</style>
</head>
<body dir="auto">


<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-37'><br />
</div>
<h2 class="section_" id='magicparlabel-38'>Reading list</h2>

<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-39'>
</div>

<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-48'>These lecture Handouts have been derived based on the above reading list.</div>

<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-49'><u>Main texts:</u></div>

<ul class="itemize" id='magicparlabel-50'><li class="itemize_item">Gaetan, C., &amp; Guyon, X. (2010). Spatial statistics and modeling (Vol. 90). New York: Springer.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">van Lieshout, M. N. M. (2019). Theory of spatial statistics: a concise introduction. CRC Press.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Wackernagel, H. (2003). Multivariate geostatistics: an introduction with applications. Springer Science &amp; Business Media.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Ripley, B. D. (2005). Spatial statistics. John Wiley &amp; Sons.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Banerjee, S., Carlin, B. P., &amp; Gelfand, A. E. (2014). Hierarchical modeling and analysis for spatial data. CRC press.</li>
</ul>
<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-55'><u>Supplementary textbooks:</u></div>

<ul class="itemize" id='magicparlabel-56'><li class="itemize_item">Schabenberger, O., &amp; Gotway, C. A. (2005). Statistical methods for spatial data analysis. CRC press.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">Wikle, C. K., Zammit-Mangion, A., &amp; Cressie, N. (2019). Spatio-temporal statistics with R. CRC Press. 

<ul class="itemize" id='magicparlabel-58'><li class="itemize_item">It demonstrate how to implement spatial, and spatio-temporal concepts in R by using descent R/CRAN packages mainly developed by the authors. </li>
</ul>
</li><li class="itemize_item">Diggle, P. J. (2013). Statistical analysis of spatial and spatio-temporal point patterns. CRC press.

<ul class="itemize" id='magicparlabel-60'><li class="itemize_item">Major focus on [S5] –Notice that this concept may not be introduced due to the time</li>
</ul>
</li><li class="itemize_item">Cressie, N. (2015). Statistics for spatial data. John Wiley &amp; Sons.

<ul class="itemize" id='magicparlabel-62'><li class="itemize_item">Classic book in spatial statistics, and a bit outdated. It requires some good knowledge of spatial statistics and it required probability theory. </li>
</ul>
</li><li class="itemize_item">Gómez-Rubio, V. (2020). Bayesian inference with INLA. CRC Press.

<ul class="itemize" id='magicparlabel-64'><li class="itemize_item">It demonstrate how to implement Integrated Nested Laplace Approximation methods. </li>
</ul>
</li></ul>
</body>
</html>
