<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.3.7" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>LyX Document</title>
<style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
div.standard {
text-align: left;

}
div.plain_layout {
text-align: left;

}
h3.subsection_ {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: medium;
margin-top: 0.9ex;
margin-bottom: 0.5ex;
text-align: left;

}
ol.enumerate {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;

}
h1.part {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: xx-large;
margin-top: 4ex;
margin-bottom: 4ex;
text-align: center;

}
div.Shadowbox { border: solid gray medium; border-bottom: solid black 1ex; border-right: solid black 1ex; padding: 0.5ex; }


</style>
</head>
<body dir="auto">


<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-1'><div class='Shadowbox'><div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-10'>Spatio-temporal statistics (MATH4341)&nbsp;&nbsp;Michaelmas term, 2023<div style='height:3ex'></div></div>

<div class="plain_layout" style='text-align: center;' id='magicparlabel-11'> Handout <a href="#enu_Handout__Aerial_unit">enu:Handout-:Aerial-unit</a>: Aerial unit data / spatial data on lattices <div style='height:3ex'></div></div>

<div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-28'>Lecturer &amp; author: Georgios P. Karagiannis <a href="georgios.karagiannis@durham.ac.uk">georgios.karagiannis@durham.ac.uk</a></div>

<div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-29'><hr />

<div style='height:3ex'></div></div>
<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-30'>Aim</h3>
<div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-31'>To introduce Aerial unit data modeling: the basic building models. </div>

<div class="plain_layout" id='magicparlabel-32'><hr />

</div>


<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-39'>Reading&nbsp;list&nbsp;&amp;&nbsp;references:</h3>

<ol class="enumerate" id='magicparlabel-40'><li class="enumerate_item"><a id="enu_Cressie__N___2015__1" />
Cressie, N. (2015; Part I).<a id="enu_Cressie__N___2015_" />
 Statistics for spatial data. John Wiley &amp; Sons.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item"><a id="enu_Gaetan__C____" />
Gaetan, C., &amp; Guyon, X. (2010; Ch 2 &amp; 5.1). <a id="enu_Gaetan__C_____1" />
Spatial statistics and modeling (Vol. 90). New York: Springer.</li>
</ol>
<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-42'>Specialized reading</h3>





</div></div>


<h1 class="part" style='text-align: center;' id='magicparlabel-67'><span class="part_label">Part I</span> Basic stochastic models &amp; related concepts for model building</h1>
<h1 class="part" id='magicparlabel-68'><span class="part_label">Part II</span> Model building &amp; related parametric inference</h1>
</body>
</html>
